--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 2 - 7th December 2010
---

h2. Issue 2 - 7th December 2010

Thanks for all the feedback since last week. I had a few issues with links being rewritten to be rather on the long side when the final newsletter was sent out. I was hoping to have time this week to get round to resolving but alas the week flew by. The same will happen again this time but I've positioned the links after the text so it should be easier to read. I'll probably move to a very simple HTML format as time permits.

h2. News

It's December which means we have lots of blogs trying to publish a new article every day. One such blog that I found last year and is keeping up the high standard again is SYSADVENT. The pick of the articles for me so far has been this one, talking about using code reviews in operations teams.

"http://sysadvent.blogspot.com/2010/12/day-5-why-arent-you-doing-code-reviews.html":http://sysadvent.blogspot.com/2010/12/day-5-why-arent-you-doing-code-reviews.html

People interested in PERFORMANCE even have their own advent calendar blog, again publishing some really good content already. This article about the need for generalists within software teams I think runs parallel with many of the ideas of devops, at least as I see them. 

"http://calendar.perfplanet.com/2010/the-full-stack/":http://calendar.perfplanet.com/2010/the-full-stack/

A few weeks ago now a group of about 35 London based developers and ops people met up to talk about DEPLOYMENT. The nice folks at YouDevise let us use a room in their offices and we had at it for a good few hours. The videos taken during the event have just been published and make an educational and occasionally entertaining watch.

"https://dev.youdevise.com/YDBlog/index.php/2010/12/01/devops-comes-to-youdevise":https://dev.youdevise.com/YDBlog/index.php/2010/12/01/devops-comes-to-youdevise

This isn't a new article but I found it interesting coming from GARTNER. If you're working in a large enterprise it can often be tricky to get buy-in for new ideas or ways of working. Having large companies outside the technology sector as well as analyst firms advocating for some of the things we're all talking about can only be beneficial.

"http://blogs.gartner.com/cameron_haight/2010/04/07/the-need-for-it-io-reform/":http://blogs.gartner.com/cameron_haight/2010/04/07/the-need-for-it-io-reform/

Matthew Jones has put together a pretty comprehensive SURVEY around devops. We've seen lots of people writing about what they think devops means, so it should be interested if enough people fill this out to see what a wider group think.

"http://www.geekle.id.au/2010/12/devops-survey-2010.html":http://www.geekle.id.au/2010/12/devops-survey-2010.html


h2. Tools

The HUDSON project have been having some political issues of late and it's good to see them publishing regular updates to the wider community. Continuous Integration plays a big part in quite a few devops ideas and we need a mature open source player in the area.

"http://www.hudson-labs.org/content/whos-driving-thing":http://www.hudson-labs.org/content/whos-driving-thing

MCOLLECTIVE has traditionally used ApacheMQ for it's messaging needs and several people (myself included) had enquired about whether it could work with RabbitMQ, especially for people that already had that message queue in a production environment. With recent patches to the Stomp adaptor for Rabbit, and this handy tutorial you should be up and running in no time.

"http://www.threedrunkensysadsonthe.net/2010/12/mcollective-and-rabbitmq-on-centos/":http://www.threedrunkensysadsonthe.net/2010/12/mcollective-and-rabbitmq-on-centos/
