--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 1 - 30th November 2010
---

h2. Issue 1 - 30th November 2010

_Welcome to the first issue of Devops Weekly._

I've been finding Ruby Weekly ("http://rubyweekly.com/":http://rubyweekly.com/), an email newsletter from Peter Cooper, increasingly useful in the last month or so. Something about finding a small amount of high quality content once a week easier to digest than the usual fire hose of RSS and Twitter. So I'm trying the same format out for devops related content. Please email me with anything you think is worth featuring.

But what is Devops? I know a number of people have signed up to this newsletter having only recently come across the term. It's safe to say Devops means different things to different people at this early stage, but I'm going to start out by pointing everyone to James Turnbull's WHAT DEVOPS MEANS TO ME ("http://www.kartar.net/2010/02/what-devops-means-to-me/":http://www.kartar.net/2010/02/what-devops-means-to-me/).


h2. News

The much loved VELOCITY conference has put out a call for participation ("http://velocityconf.com/velocity2011/public/cfp/137":http://velocityconf.com/velocity2011/public/cfp/137) for next year's event. You have until January 11th, 2011 to put together suggestions and submit them. In particular they are looking for talks and panels on NoSQL, mobile performance, effective cloud computing, javaScript speedups, TCP, HTTP, and SSL optimizations, metrics and monitoring and the impact on the bottom line.

Lindsay Holmwood has written an interesting piece this week about all the things happening in Devops recently, in particular whether people are too focused on tools and technologies at the expense of people and communication ("http://www.agileweboperations.com/devops-hijacked-by-technologists":http://www.agileweboperations.com/devops-hijacked-by-technologists).

On a related topic Spike Morelli has been writing about the use of the term Devops and how it's a useful marketing phrase if we want to spread our experiments and ideas to a wider audience ("http://www.spikelab.org/the-word-devops-and-a-marketing-problem/":http://www.spikelab.org/the-word-devops-and-a-marketing-problem/). This definitely gels with my own reasons for creating Devops Weekly.


h2. Tools

Joe Heck just wrote about a new monitoring system he's been working on for a year called EYES ("http://www.rhonabwy.com/wp/2010/11/20/eyes-a-new-monitoring-system/":http://www.rhonabwy.com/wp/2010/11/20/eyes-a-new-monitoring-system/). It's still early days but sounds interesting. The main thrust seems to be that having a monitoring system that is completely API driven from the start makes lots of things easier. It uses the Nagios plugin format as well so you should be able to make use of existing plugins easily enough.

I've recently been playing with CUCUMER for monitoring purposes and it looks like others have too. Jordan Sissel just posted an example of using Cucumber to monitor a Solr instance ("https://gist.github.com/707691":https://gist.github.com/707691) that I found useful. If anyone else has any Cucumber scripts they use for monitoring purposes I'd love to know.

One article I came across this week that I found particularly handy was a huge roundup of Linux MONITORING UTILITIES ("http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/top-linux-monitoring-tools.html":http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/top-linux-monitoring-tools.html). I'd wager most readers will have come across most of the tools on the list but I found it interesting seeing them all listed in one place along with quick examples.

I only came across VAGRANT ("http://vagrantup.com/":http://vagrantup.com/) at the recent devopsdays event in Hamburg but I'm already finding it indispensable. Vagrant is a tool for building and distributing virtualized development environments built around VirtualBox. In my view it massively reduces the barrier to entry for using virtualisation in even small development teams. Worth checking out.


h2. Events

UK SCALE CAMP ("http://www.scalecamp.org.uk/":http://www.scalecamp.org.uk/) is billed as a one-day event for and by people who care about web performance and scalability. It's being hosted in London at the offices of The Guardian and if last year's event was anything to go by should be a great opportunity to talk about interesting topics with smart people. For those not able to make it along I'll try and find as many write ups of the event for a future Devops Weekly.


h2. Sponsored Link

Well not really, DEVOPS BOOKS ("http://devopsbooks.com/":http://devopsbooks.com/) is another site I just launched collecting recommended reading for anyone interested in Devops topics. I'm always looking for more book recommendations so please email me with anything I'm missing.
