--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 13 - 9th March 2011
---

h2. Issue 13 - 9th March 2011

h2. News

Maciej Ceglowski has written up the full story of the days and nights when the internet descended on Pinboard after Yahoo attempted to kill off Delicious. All sorts of good recommendations and observations about running a site under load.

"http://pinboard.in/blog/173/":http://pinboard.in/blog/173/

Being both a big fan of testing and of monitoring I've been thinking for a while about all the parallels between the two. This blog post by Grig Gheorghiu covers just that, expanding on a number of similarities. I'd have liked to see mention of overlapping tools or the lack thereof as I've been meaning to write something on that myself for a while.

"http://agiletesting.blogspot.com/2011/03/monitoring-is-for-ops-what-testing-is.html":http://agiletesting.blogspot.com/2011/03/monitoring-is-for-ops-what-testing-is.html

The analysts have been writing interesting things about the whole devops idea and I thought this set of observations from a large IBM event were interesting.

"http://blogs.forrester.com/dave_west/11-03-09-dev_ops_fell_on_deaf_ears_at_ibm_pulse_2011":http://blogs.forrester.com/dave_west/11-03-09-dev_ops_fell_on_deaf_ears_at_ibm_pulse_2011

Interesting article from Erwin Bolwidt about what he terms Stateless Computing. This goes into more details, along with a clear outline of the advantages and some practical tips, on using an image based deployment approach.

"http://blog.worldturner.com/worldturner/entry/stateless_computing":http://blog.worldturner.com/worldturner/entry/stateless_computing

Jesse Robins from Opscode gave what sounded like a great talk at DevopsDays Boston called Devops Culture Hacks. Martin J. Logan was on hand to live blog it in detail, covering various ways you can help create real change in organisations that already have a way of working.

"http://devops.com/2011/03/08/devops-culture-hacks/":http://devops.com/2011/03/08/devops-culture-hacks/

On the 19th of May in London UKUUG are running a full day workshop on Debian packaging run by Phil Hands. This sounds like a great way of getting starting with system packaging if you're wondering where to start.

"http://www.ukuug.org/events/debian2011/":http://www.ukuug.org/events/debian2011/

Mytop has been around for a long time, but it's nice to see an introductory article showing how to use it for those that might not have come across it before.

"http://www.junauza.com/2011/02/live-performance-monitor-for-your-mysql.html":http://www.junauza.com/2011/02/live-performance-monitor-for-your-mysql.html

h2. Tools

Fabric now has a 1.0 release, including improvements to the main workhorses of sudo, run, put and get. Also puts in place some of the groundwork for writing tests for fabfiles and task namespacing in the near future.

"http://readthedocs.org/docs/fabric/en/1.0.0/changes/1.0.html":http://readthedocs.org/docs/fabric/en/1.0.0/changes/1.0.html

Knife is the command line tool used for managing Chef nodes and it's now been much improved for those using Windows environments. Knife-windows adds commands to bootstrap and run commands on remote windows machines.

"https://github.com/opscode/knife-windows":https://github.com/opscode/knife-windows

I've not spent enough time looking at looks like ZooKeeper to see where they fit in, but this article takes on that subject and also introduces an alternative tool, Noah, which looks particularly interesting.

"http://lusislog.blogspot.com/2011/03/ad-hoc-configuration-coordination-and.html":http://lusislog.blogspot.com/2011/03/ad-hoc-configuration-coordination-and.html
"https://github.com/lusis/Noah":https://github.com/lusis/Noah
