--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 9 - 8th February 2011
---

h2. Issue 9 - 8th February 2011

_Welcome to the ninth instalment of Devops Weekly. A little later than intended as I've been in Brussels for the FOSDEM conference. But we're back to being out on Tuesday again._

h2. News

The DevOps Survey 2010 results are in. Over 200 people filled in the survey and the results have been collated and graphed. Worth a look.

"http://www.geekle.id.au/2011/01/devops-survey-2010-results.html":http://www.geekle.id.au/2011/01/devops-survey-2010-results.html

Belgium is definitely on a roll when it comes to useful technical events and Load looks to be no exception. It's in Wilrijk on April 16th-17th and is geared towards Linux sysadmins and people interested in linux administration. A call for papers is up now.

"http://www.loadays.org/news/call-presentations":http://www.loadays.org/news/call-presentations

More proof that at least the analysts are listening to people about devops. I'm not convinced that platform as a service is really the answer to everything but the comments in particular are worth reading.

"http://blogs.forrester.com/mike_gualtieri/11-02-07-i_dont_want_devops_i_want_noops":http://blogs.forrester.com/mike_gualtieri/11-02-07-i_dont_want_devops_i_want_noops

Brightbox, the UK based web host, have launched a load balancer component to their cloud hosting platform. Unlike Amazon ELB you can point an IP address at a load balancer, meaning you don't have to use CNAME records, which might be useful to some.

"http://blog.brightbox.co.uk/posts/cloud-load-balancers-beta":http://blog.brightbox.co.uk/posts/cloud-load-balancers-beta

I'm hearing more and more people try to configure systems so they don't need to ever login to them. This article is a pretty good explanation of how you might come to that conclusion and what you need to think about to make it a reality.

"http://me.andering.com/2011/02/03/server-login-considered-harmful/":http://me.andering.com/2011/02/03/server-login-considered-harmful/

Some things still take lots of commands and the first step to automating them is to write everything down. This article covers creating a bootable virtual application using VMWare and does just that.

"http://blog.worldturner.com/worldturner/entry/creating_a_bootable_virtual_appliance":http://blog.worldturner.com/worldturner/entry/creating_a_bootable_virtual_appliance

h2. Tools

Noah is a lightweight node and service registry based on Zookeeper. Zookepper did always strike me as interesting but pretty impenetrable. Noah uses Redis on the backend and is written in Ruby and already looks well documented.

"https://github.com/lusis/Noah":https://github.com/lusis/Noah

Node Control is a node.js based system admin and code deployment too for executing commands on many remote machines in parallel via ssh. I'm finding it interesting that node.js is cropping up more and more as a platform for writing system tools like this.

"https://github.com/tsmith/node-control":https://github.com/tsmith/node-control
