--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 28 - 3rd July 2011
---

h2. Issue 28 - 3rd July 2011

_Lots of events news this week, along with a load of videos from various recent events. I'll be at the next London Devops event and in Goteburg later in the year, hopefully see a few people at both._


h2. News

Registration is now open for Devops Days Europe in Goteborg. $120 for 2 days is great value, and with only 150 people attending it should be quite a good event for indepth discussions. See you there.

"http://www.devopsdays.org/events/2011-goteborg/registration/":http://www.devopsdays.org/events/2011-goteborg/registration/

The next London Devops event is now open for signup. The event is free to attend and will be on the 25th July 2011. The nice folks at Forward are sponsoring and providing a really nice space. If you're in London do come along. We're still looking for more speakers so if you're interested get in touch.

"https://londondevops.eventwax.com/devops-talks-back":https://londondevops.eventwax.com/devops-talks-back

The videos from sessions at Devops Days Mountain View have been posted online. Talks and discussions on Kanban, QA, CDN Caching, Orchestration and more. Lots to catch up on.

"http://dev2ops.org/blog/tag/devops-days-mv-2011-video":http://dev2ops.org/blog/tag/devops-days-mv-2011-video

I'm finding more and more videos with great content recently, including this talk from QCon by Jez Humble on minimising risk when releasing software. Worth watching.

"http://www.infoq.com/presentations/Remediation-Patterns":http://www.infoq.com/presentations/Remediation-Patterns

More videos from Damon Edwards, this time two videos from a visit to Etsy and discussions with John Allspaw. Two quick videos discussing metrics and what to put on developer and operations dashboards.

"http://dev2ops.org/blog/2011/6/24/video-with-john-allspaw-at-etsy-what-to-put-on-the-big-dashb.html":http://dev2ops.org/blog/2011/6/24/video-with-john-allspaw-at-etsy-what-to-put-on-the-big-dashb.html
"http://dev2ops.org/blog/2011/6/30/more-video-with-john-allspaw-at-etsy-dashboard-tour-metrics.html":http://dev2ops.org/blog/2011/6/30/more-video-with-john-allspaw-at-etsy-dashboard-tour-metrics.html

The recent Heroku release packed in lots of improvements and changes, and this series on some of the underlying principles has been great. This article goes over what they describe as Erosion Resistance of a platform, basically knowing if it works today that it will still work in the future without excessive maintenance.

"http://blog.heroku.com/archives/2011/6/28/the_new_heroku_4_erosion_resistance_explicit_contracts/":http://blog.heroku.com/archives/2011/6/28/the_new_heroku_4_erosion_resistance_explicit_contracts/

Nice article from Ben Rockwood on what he describes as the Three Aspects of DevOps. Breaking the adoption of Devops practices into three phases, with activities under each is a nice high level way of looking for the next step in your team or organisation.

"http://cuddletech.com/blog/?p=624":http://cuddletech.com/blog/?p=624

A nice article by Brian Henerey from Sony on building a new team within the Online Technology Group. Some good tips for anyone involved in hiring and building or improving a team.

"http://agilesysadmin.net/building-a-devops-team":http://agilesysadmin.net/building-a-devops-team

Whenever building a system it's interesting to be able to compare with other similar platforms. Most individuals only have so much experience, so it's always nice to see details like these from TripAdvisor published online. Everything from number of service requests, expected response times, size of logs, etc. Lots to dig into.

"http://highscalability.com/blog/2011/6/27/tripadvisor-architecture-40m-visitors-200m-dynamic-page-view.html":http://highscalability.com/blog/2011/6/27/tripadvisor-architecture-40m-visitors-200m-dynamic-page-view.html


h2. Tools

Creating custom AMIs for EC2 has generally been something I've avoided, but Stem looks an incredibly simply way of creating and launching custom AMIs. A simple command line tool with a JSON configuration file. If you're using EC2 well worth taking a look at.

"http://michaelgorsuch.com/2011/02/27/introduction-to-stem.html":http://michaelgorsuch.com/2011/02/27/introduction-to-stem.html

Getting started with configuration management across a number of machines often requires a bit of setting things up and maybe some money spend on EC2. Chef Box is an interesting project that provides tools for bringing up several Vagrant controlled Ubuntu machines on your desktop, all managed by an Chef server installed on one of them.

"https://github.com/dysinger/chef-box":https://github.com/dysinger/chef-box

