--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 25 - 11th June 2011
---

h2. Issue 25 - 11th June 2011

_It's Velocity and devopsdays next week and I'm guessing a fair few readers will be going along. While you're enjoying all the glorious content take a moment to think of everyone who can't make it - and blog and tweet like crazy so we can keep up._


h2. News

It turns out Puppet Labs employ a User Experience Designer, responsible for making the command line, API's and the Puppet DSL as nice to use as they can be. Too many designers miss the potential of command line utilities so this is greta news.

"http://www.puppetlabs.com/blog/what-is-user-experience-in-puppet/":http://www.puppetlabs.com/blog/what-is-user-experience-in-puppet/

R.I.Pienaar (of mcollective fame) has been very busy this last week. First releasing Hiera, a new hierarchal data store aimed at representing key value data about infrastructure. The following two blog posts go into details about how this can be used with puppet to keep manifests particularly clean and reusable.

"http://www.devco.net/archives/2011/06/05/hiera_a_pluggable_hierarchical_data_store.php":http://www.devco.net/archives/2011/06/05/hiera_a_pluggable_hierarchical_data_store.php
"http://www.devco.net/archives/2011/06/06/puppet_backend_for_hiera.php":http://www.devco.net/archives/2011/06/06/puppet_backend_for_hiera.php
"http://www.devco.net/archives/2011/06/11/puppet_backend_for_hiera_part_2.php":http://www.devco.net/archives/2011/06/11/puppet_backend_for_hiera_part_2.php

I've mentioned the growing #monitoringsucks movement in the last few issues. John Vincent has written a good blog post summarising what's going on and what he'd love to see come out of the group. The project now has repos for tools, metrics best practice, irc logs and any blog posts written on the subject.

"http://lusislog.blogspot.com/2011/06/why-monitoring-sucks.html":http://lusislog.blogspot.com/2011/06/why-monitoring-sucks.html

Selenium is a handy tool, but running it in headless mode has often been troublesome. This blog post demonstrates using PyVirtualDisplay, a Python wrapper for Xvfb and Xephyr, to run your tests. If you're using Python this looks very useful.

"http://coreygoldberg.blogspot.com/2011/06/python-headless-selenium-webdriver.html":http://coreygoldberg.blogspot.com/2011/06/python-headless-selenium-webdriver.html

I found this article on the IBM Integrated Service Management Blog. Describing devops as "simultaneously reassuring and terrifying" it's a really interesting, and positive, insight from an experienced outsider. The car analogy is a nice thought as well.

"https://www-304.ibm.com/connections/blogs/59c1123b-0353-458e-a719-b002d84108d5/entry/devops_should_i_have_known_what_that_is1?lang=en_us":https://www-304.ibm.com/connections/blogs/59c1123b-0353-458e-a719-b002d84108d5/entry/devops_should_i_have_known_what_that_is1?lang=en_us


h2. Tools

Log.io looks an interesting tool for visualising log files in realtime in a browser. It's a node.js application that you can host yourself, and it can harvest log files from multiple machines and let you build up views of what you want to see.

"http://logio.org/":http://logio.org/

Vagrant is spawning a number of useful plugins, and snap is the latest. It provides the ability to take snapshots of virtual machines and then restore back to them, and it usefully supports multi-vm vagrantfiles.

"https://github.com/t9md/vagrant-snap":https://github.com/t9md/vagrant-snap

chef.vim is plugin for vim using chef fans. It provides the ability to jump between attributes and recipes and easily open recipes, templates and files in your cookbooks.

"https://github.com/t9md/vim-chef":https://github.com/t9md/vim-chef

