--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 12 - 1st March 2011
---

h2. Issue 12 - 1st March 2011

_A big thank you to everyone who filled out the survey last week. So far I've amassed over 600 responses which should make for some good analysis. Now with interesting devops new for the week._

h2. News

The big news this week was Amazon's launch of CloudFormation, which is a way of creating templates to describe your infrastructure, which can then be executed to provision EC2 instances and other AWS components automatically.

"http://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/":http://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/

On hearing about CloudFormation various parts of the internet exploded with comments about how they no longer needed Chef or Puppet, missing the difference between configuration management and provisioning (AWS specific provisioning at that) entirely. Luckily Mitchell Hashimoto (of Vagrant fame) and Stephen Nelson-Smith both came to the rescue.

"http://agilesysadmin.net/cloudformation":http://agilesysadmin.net/cloudformation
"http://mitchellhashimoto.com/post/3526628232/cloudformation-the-big-picture":http://mitchellhashimoto.com/post/3526628232/cloudformation-the-big-picture

R.I.Pienaar meanwhile was busy showing how CloudFormation can be useful (with a great mcollective example) and then breaking down some of the good and bad points about the current implementation.

"http://www.devco.net/archives/2011/02/26/mcollective_101_demo_using_aws_cloudformation.php":http://www.devco.net/archives/2011/02/26/mcollective_101_demo_using_aws_cloudformation.php

Node.js got some nice things said about it by the smart folk at SimpleGeo. They argue that Node.js is a good candidate for production services right now and outline some of the reasons they chose it and things they like.

"http://highscalability.com/blog/2011/2/22/is-nodejs-becoming-a-part-of-the-stack-simplegeo-says-yes.html":http://highscalability.com/blog/2011/2/22/is-nodejs-becoming-a-part-of-the-stack-simplegeo-says-yes.html

If you're in Chicago this Saturday you might be interested in a Puppet Hack-a-thon being organised by Martin J. Logan. Two tracks and Puppetlabs founder Teyo Tyree should make for an interesting event.

"http://www.meetup.com/devops/events/16513536/":http://www.meetup.com/devops/events/16513536/


h2. Tools

Tav has reworked the core of Fabric to add all sorts of shiny new features and remove a few scars. An environment variable manager, remote script execution, contexts (more advanced roles and hosts control), parallel deployment, stages, a build-in shell, autocompletion and even colours for output. And some other things too. I really hope this gets merged upstream.

"http://tav.espians.com/fabric-python-with-cleaner-api-and-parallel-deployment-support.html":http://tav.espians.com/fabric-python-with-cleaner-api-and-parallel-deployment-support.html

An interesting presentation, that actually works just reading the slides. Interesting alternative to package installation and bootstrapping using Fabric and an extension called Cuisine. And details of system monitoring using Watchdog.

"http://www.slideshare.net/ffunction/fabric-cuisine-and-watchdog-for-server-administration-in-python":http://www.slideshare.net/ffunction/fabric-cuisine-and-watchdog-for-server-administration-in-python
