--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 6 - 14th January 2011
---

h2. Issue 6 - 14th January 2011

_Welcome to the sixth instalment of Devops Weekly. I've had a few people contact me about putting job opportunities in the list and I'm giving that a go this week. Shout up if don't like this._

h2. News

Boston is the venue for the next devopsdays conference and you have until February 20th to get your proposals in if you'd like to speak.

"http://devopsdays.org/blog/2011/01/08/boston-devopsdays-7-8-march-2011/":http://devopsdays.org/blog/2011/01/08/boston-devopsdays-7-8-march-2011/

Joshua Timberman from Opscode is in London next month to give a 3 day Chef Fundamentals course from 31st of January.

"http://agilesysadmin.net/chef-fundamentals":http://agilesysadmin.net/chef-fundamentals

Lots of the tools I generally use work only on Linux or Unix environments but some people are trying to take along of these same ideas into the Windows world. Jon Topper is currently trying to organise a get together in London and asking people when they could meet.

"http://www.doodle.com/zx46wyxy79u53pd6":http://www.doodle.com/zx46wyxy79u53pd6

This is a great article re-imaginging stored procedures. DBA's and developers working more closely together sounds like a good thing.

"http://jaksprats.wordpress.com/2010/11/15/datastore-side-scripting-can-prevent-bottlenecks/":http://jaksprats.wordpress.com/2010/11/15/datastore-side-scripting-can-prevent-bottlenecks/

If you want a detailed high level description of all the things you could and should be monitoring look no further. Mathias Meyer has written a great article covering the different levels you probably want monitoring and why, along with reference to tools that fit that problem.

"http://www.paperplanes.de/2011/1/5/the_virtues_of_monitoring.html":http://www.paperplanes.de/2011/1/5/the_virtues_of_monitoring.html

Facebook talking about scaling is always good and these take aways from a talk by Aditya Agarwal, Director of Engineering at Facebook, are interesting reading. It concentrates mainly on how to scale an organisation which I think is just as important as the technology side.

"http://highscalability.com/blog/2010/6/10/the-four-meta-secrets-of-scaling-at-facebook.html":http://highscalability.com/blog/2010/6/10/the-four-meta-secrets-of-scaling-at-facebook.html

h2. Tools

LASIC is a language that facilitates creating and managing systems in a cloud environment. At the moment it only supports Amazon AWS but looks like it might be interesting

"http://code.google.com/p/lasic/":http://code.google.com/p/lasic/

h2. Jobs

FreeAgent is a fast growing and hugely popular UK based startup obsessed with building fantastic online accounting software. We're a small team of smart people looking to hire productive Ruby and Rails developers in Edinburgh or Cambridge. You'll be working on adding and maintaining features for our existing applications and making sure our software scales up as we inevitably take over the world.

"http://www.freeagentcentral.com/company/jobs":http://www.freeagentcentral.com/company/jobs

Bin Weevils are looking for a new PHP developer/sysadmin to join the team and continue the development of our PHP backed flash-based game. Being able to handle things at extreme scale is kinda fun - it's a quiet day that does less than 5,000 concurrent users and 10+ million hits on our servers (and that's a drop in the ocean compared to the CDN and other servers we run). New code is written in the Zend Framework, with use of Nginx, Memcache and also some Java servers. For sysadmin tasks, an appreciation of tools like Chef and Capistrano would be useful.

"http://www.binweevils.com":http://www.binweevils.com
