--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 5 - 7th January 2011
---

h2. Issue 5 - 7th January 2011

_Welcome to the fifth instalment of Devops Weekly. Sorry for the slow start this year, I've been a little busy getting the new year started (so still no HTML version, sorry). Luckily the internet has been busy too so here's what I've been reading these past few weeks._

h2. News

First off a few upcoming events. If you're in Paris the second devops meetup is scheduled for the 12th of January.

"http://lanyrd.com/2011/paris-devops-meetup-2/":http://lanyrd.com/2011/paris-devops-meetup-2/

In Chicago a few days later on the 15th of January a Chef Hackathon is being held. This looks like a full day event and some of the Opscode folk are going to be going along.

"http://www.meetup.com/devops/calendar/15648262/":http://www.meetup.com/devops/calendar/15648262/

This interview with Adrian Cole about Jclouds (a Java library for interacting with cloud services like EC2) has a few interesting points. In particular the build in in-memory version of S3 especially for writing tests against is a nice idea. Worth a read.

"http://www.infoq.com/interviews/adrian-cole-jclouds":http://www.infoq.com/interviews/adrian-cole-jclouds

This next article shows a couple of approaches to having EC2 (or any cloud instance) automatically register with your puppetmaster. Good examples and good explanation of what you're doing and why.

"http://www.codelord.net/2010/12/19/using-puppet-to-automatically-configure-new-ec2-instances/":http://www.codelord.net/2010/12/19/using-puppet-to-automatically-configure-new-ec2-instances/

A good lengthy walkthrough of starting out with Chef. If you've been using Chef for a while it's easy to forget the initial barrier of getting going so I really liked the conversational style and personal experience approach to this tutorial. 

"http://beacon.wharton.upenn.edu/404/2010/12/chef-out-of-the-gate/":http://beacon.wharton.upenn.edu/404/2010/12/chef-out-of-the-gate/


h2. Tools

SSH is probably one of the most useful and used tools in anyones toolbox and the number of tricks and features is surprisingly large. This ever growing blog post is documenting in an easy to read manner all manner of tips and best practices.

"http://crunchtools.com/ssh-keychain/":http://crunchtools.com/ssh-keychain/

The nice folk at Etsy have open sourced an internal node.js tool they are using to collect and aggregate statistics. StatsD provides a very straightforward interface for collecting arbitrary stats and feeding them into Graphite.

"https://github.com/etsy/statsd":https://github.com/etsy/statsd

I'm always interested in another continuos integration server and Big Tuna looks nice. It's a Rails based application, supports multiple version control systems and has a nice looking interface.

"http://bigtuna.appelier.com/":http://bigtuna.appelier.com/
