--- 
layout: post
title: Issue 19 - 27th April 2011
---

h2. Isse 19 - 27th April 2011

_I'm not sure whether it's just because I'm on holiday and have more time on my hands or whether it's just been a busy week but lots of news and interesting tool releases this last week._


h2. News

As I was busy sending the last issue Amazon AWS was having some rather epic issues. While everyones boxes where inaccessible people used the time to write blog posts about the downtime. The High Scalability blog has about 50 articles.

"http://agilesysadmin.net/ec2-outage-lessons":http://agilesysadmin.net/ec2-outage-lessons
"http://highscalability.com/blog/2011/4/25/the-big-list-of-articles-on-the-amazon-outage.html":http://highscalability.com/blog/2011/4/25/the-big-list-of-articles-on-the-amazon-outage.html

Twilio use EC2 extensively but had very few issues, due to focusing on the principal of a "unit-of-failure is a single host". This had meant they had avoided using EBS to avoid such a problem.

"http://www.twilio.com/engineering/2011/04/22/why-twilio-wasnt-affected-by-todays-aws-issues/":http://www.twilio.com/engineering/2011/04/22/why-twilio-wasnt-affected-by-todays-aws-issues/

Jordan Sissel gave a talk about fpm at the recent BayLISA event. It's a great slide desk, laying down the problems with various forays in packaging and then showing code examples of using fpm to build debs and rpms.

"https://docs.google.com/present/view?id=0Aa9liCTsAyzRZGNtd3dkOTRfMTdmczY2azlkcg&hl=en&pli=1":https://docs.google.com/present/view?id=0Aa9liCTsAyzRZGNtd3dkOTRfMTdmczY2azlkcg&hl=en&pli=1

Nice write up by Mujtaba Hussain of mixing developers and operations staff members up a little, by loaning team members to different divisions to try and get better communication. Some good discussion in the comments too about what's worked for other people.

"http://techblog.realestate.com.au/2011/04/devops-and-associated-thoughts/":http://techblog.realestate.com.au/2011/04/devops-and-associated-thoughts/

Common patterns for software build and release sounds like a great idea, and Julian Simpson wrote an article for the Spring 2011 issue of Methods & Tools on just that, based on conversations at last years SPA Conference in London.

"http://www.methodsandtools.com/archive/archive.php?id=116":http://www.methodsandtools.com/archive/archive.php?id=116

Obligatory Vagrant article this time again with a thorough write up of the benefits and purpose of Vagrant, as well as a big Drupal example. This is probably the first time I've seen a shared Vagrantfile, which is a great idea come to think of it.

"http://chuckdantonio.com/blog/2011/04/add-vagrant-your-team":http://chuckdantonio.com/blog/2011/04/add-vagrant-your-team
"https://github.com/crdant/vagrant-drupal":https://github.com/crdant/vagrant-drupal

Graphite looks pretty interesting for adhoc graphing duties, but the installation and setup isn't trivial. This article walks through all the steps and looks like it's going to turn into a series about using Graphite. Look forward the the next one.

"http://agiletesting.blogspot.com/2011/04/installing-and-configuring-graphite.html":http://agiletesting.blogspot.com/2011/04/installing-and-configuring-graphite.html


h2. Tools

Virtual Machine Test Harness is an interesting take on writing tests for configuration management tools. Uses KVM under the hood to take snapshots at different states for testing against. Lacking documentation at the moment though.

"https://github.com/gregretkowski/vmth":https://github.com/gregretkowski/vmth

The folks at Rackspace have released a preview of their open source deployment tool, Cast. It's an API driven Node.js application which aims to let you automate deployment of applications and services, although it feels odd that the example given is for Redis rather than say a web application.

"http://cast-project.org/faq/":http://cast-project.org/faq/

Pulp is a Python application for managing software repositories and their associated content, such as packages, errata, and distributions. Another tool in this area from RedHat.

"http://pulpproject.org/":http://pulpproject.org/

